docs: add docs with differences from the APM Python agent (#206)
elastic/elastic-otel-python: docs/migrate-from-apm.md

<!--
Goal of this doc:
The user is able to understand the differences between the APM Python agent and EDOT
-->

# Get started

> This guide will highlight the major differences between APM Python Agent and the Elastic Distribution of OpenTelemetry Python (EDOT Python).

Author: ```suggestion
This guide will highlight the major differences between Elastic APM Python Agent and the Elastic Distribution of OpenTelemetry Python (EDOT Python).
```

For an hands-on approach on setting up EDOT Python refer to the [Get started guide](./get-started.md).

## We are a distribution

> EDOT Python being a distribution of OpenTelemetry means we should follow standards and can't always drift from that. That does not mean there isn't still space for innovation.

Author: Maybe I'm missing something importat to add here

## Bold on autoinstrumentation

> We have choosen to be bold on autoinstrumentation - that is instrument your Python application without change the application code - so you can just focus on your code. This is because OpenTelemetry configuration has more options and configuration knobs that may complicate things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have chosen to make auto-instrumentation as simple as possible so you can just focus on your code; we favored an experience that requires minimal changes to your application code. The upstream OpenTelemetry configuration has more options and configuration knobs than the distribution requires setting.
```

## Bring your own instrumentation

In EDOT Python we decided to not ship all the available instrumentations in order to accomodate environments where installing more packages than requested may be an issue.
We provide a tool to discover available instrumentations automatically that can be added to your build workflow. See [Get started](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-otel-python/blob/main/docs/get-started.md#install-the-available-instrumentation).

## Limitations

### Central configuration

> At the moment we don't have a Central configuration replacement so all the configurations would be static and should be provided to the application with other manners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment we don't have a Central configuration feature so all the configurations are static and should be provided to the application with other configurations.
```

### AWS lambda

> At the moment we are not building any custom lambda layer for the Python instrumentation. You can refer to the upstream [Lambda Auto-Instrumentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/faas/lambda-auto-instrument/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment, we are not building a custom lambda layer for our Python distribution. You can refer to the upstream [Lambda Auto-Instrumentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/faas/lambda-auto-instrument/).
```

### Missing instrumentations

> Not all instrumentation we have in APM Python Agent have an OpenTelemetry counterpart, we may port them if there is customer request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all instrumentations we have in Elastic APM Python Agent have an OpenTelemetry counterpart. But we may port them if they are requested by users.
```

> At the moment of writing the following libraries are missing an OpenTelemetry instrumentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment of writing these docs, the following libraries are missing an OpenTelemetry instrumentation:
```

- aiobotocore
- aiomysql
- aiopg
- aioredis
- Azure storage and Azure queue
- Graphene
- httplib2
- pylibmc
- pyodbc
- pymssql

> - Sanic, though it may be compatible with the ASGI instrumentation

Author: I should probably check

Author: And it doesn't because sanic doesn't use the asgiref library

> - Sanic, though it may be compatible with the ASGI instrumentation

Author: ```suggestion
- Sanic
```

- zlib

> 

Reviewer 2: >At the moment of writing these docs

Since we're suggesting these docs may become out of date, can we also point them somewhere to see the latest list of libraries with an OpenTelemetry instrumentation? Maybe https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python-contrib/tree/main/instrumentation#readme? Or is there somewhere in the code in this repo?

```suggestion

For the latest list of supported OpenTelemetry instrumentations, visit the [OpenTelemetry Python Contrib repo](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python-contrib/tree/main/instrumentation#readme).

```

Author: I see the issue but we may decide to not ship some of them or ship some instrumentations that are not available there. So I prefer to not link to it.

<!--
Goal of this doc:
The user is able to understand the differences between the APM Python agent and EDOT
-->

# Compare EDOT Python and the Elastic APM Python agent

This guide will highlight the major differences between the [Elastic APM Python agent](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/apm/agent/python/current/getting-started.html) and the Elastic Distribution of OpenTelemetry Python (EDOT Python).
For step-by-step instructions on setting up EDOT Python refer to the [Get started guide](./get-started.md).

## We are a distribution

As a distribution of OpenTelemetry, EDOT Python follows certain standards, but there is still some space for innovation.

## Bold on autoinstrumentation

> We have chosen to make autoinstrumentation as simple as possible so you can just focus on your code; we favored an experience that requires minimal changes to your application code. The upstream OpenTelemetry configuration has more options than the distribution requires.

Reviewer 3: What if the reader wants to know how to make use of the upstream configuration of what we consider not required? Do we want to add some instructions or a link to a page with instructions here?

Author: We list our configuration in the README (https://github.com/elastic/elastic-otel-python?tab=readme-ov-file#configuration), I can link it here.

> We have chosen to make autoinstrumentation as simple as possible so you can just focus on your code; we favored an experience that requires minimal changes to your application code. The upstream OpenTelemetry configuration has more options than the distribution requires.

Author: ```suggestion
We have chosen to make autoinstrumentation as simple as possible so you can just focus on your code; we favored an experience that requires minimal changes to your application code. The upstream OpenTelemetry configuration has more options than the distribution requires. Our default configuration is listed [here](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-otel-python?tab=readme-ov-file#configuration).
```

## Bring your own instrumentation

In EDOT Python we decided to not ship all the available instrumentations in order to accommodate environments where installing more packages than requested may be an issue.
We provide a tool to discover available instrumentations automatically that can be added to your build workflow. See [Get started](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-otel-python/blob/main/docs/get-started.md#install-the-available-instrumentation).

## Limitations

### Central and Dynamic configuration

> Currently EDOT Python does not have an equivalent of the [central configuration feature](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/observability/current/apm-agent-configuration.html) that the Elastic APM Python agent supports. When using EDOT Python, all the configurations are static and should be provided to the application with other configurations.

Reviewer 3: Does it help to give the reader a hint what "other configuration" means specifically?

Author: What do you think on adding something like `e.g. environment variables`?

Reviewer 3: That's good and gives the reader an idea of what we are thinking of.

> Currently EDOT Python does not have an equivalent of the [central configuration feature](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/observability/current/apm-agent-configuration.html) that the Elastic APM Python agent supports. When using EDOT Python, all the configurations are static and should be provided to the application with other configurations.

Author: ```suggestion
Currently EDOT Python does not have an equivalent of the [central configuration feature](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/observability/current/apm-agent-configuration.html) that the Elastic APM Python agent supports. When using EDOT Python, all the configurations are static and should be provided to the application with other configurations, e.g. environment variables.
```

### AWS lambda

At the moment, we are not building a custom lambda layer for our Python distribution. You can refer to the upstream [Lambda Auto-Instrumentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/faas/lambda-auto-instrument/).

### Missing instrumentations

Not all instrumentations we have in Elastic APM Python Agent have an OpenTelemetry counterpart. But we may port them if they are requested by users.

> At the moment of writing these docs, the following libraries are missing an OpenTelemetry instrumentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the time of writing these docs, the following libraries are missing an OpenTelemetry instrumentation:
```

- aiobotocore
- aiomysql
- aiopg
- aioredis
- Azure storage and Azure queue
- Graphene
- httplib2
- pylibmc
- pyodbc
- pymssql
- Sanic
- zlib

> ### Integration with structured logging

Reviewer 3: Is it easier for the reader when we have a table comparing between the classic Python agent and the EDOT Python what is support and what is not supported not?

Author: Not sure about that, I would prefer to go with the prose at first

Reviewer 3: ok
